# NDNP Open OCR
## Tesseract-based OCR pipeline for NDNP batches

This is a library created by the Library of Congress to perform OCR reprocessing of NDNP batches, generating new ALTO and PDF files for an issue in a given batch. It includes two main classes: `AltoProcessor` and `PDFProcessor`, which are then utilized in the `OCRProcessor` class.

## Developing and Running with Docker

1.
    Build the docker image housing the NDNP Open OCR library
```bash
docker build -t ndnp_open_ocr_container_repo:latest .
```

2. Run the docker image and mount the current directory in there to run code.
```bash
docker run -it -v $(PWD):/app -w /app ndnp_open_ocr_container_repo:latest bash
```

## Installing Dependencies on macOS

### Tesseract

Tesseract is an open-source OCR engine. To install Tesseract on macOS, you can use Homebrew:

1. If you don't have Homebrew installed, open Terminal and run:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

2. Once Homebrew is installed, you can install Tesseract by running:

```bash
brew install tesseract
```

### Exiftool

ExifTool is a platform-independent Perl library plus a command-line application for reading, writing, and editing meta information in a wide variety of files.

1. To install ExifTool on macOS, you can use Homebrew:

```bash
brew install exiftool
```
### Ghostscript

Ghostscript is an interpreter for the PostScript language and for PDF.

1. To install Ghostscript on macOS, you can use Homebrew:

```bash
brew install ghostscript
```

### Pip

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


After installing these dependencies, you should be able to run the OCR reprocessing pipeline.
## Classes

### AltoProcessor

`AltoProcessor` is responsible for processing ALTO (Analyzed Layout and Text Object) files, which are XML files that describe the layout and content of text recognized in images.

Key methods include:

- `add_description_tags()`: Add NDNP Open OCR description tags to the output ALTO file.
- `convert_pixels_to_inches()`: Convert measurement units to inch1200 from pixels in the ALTO file.
- `fix_alto_file_hyphenation()`: Corrects hyphenation in the ALTO file to match NDNP spec.
- `save()`: Save the processed ALTO file.

### PDFProcessor

`PDFProcessor` is responsible for postprocessing the PDFs that are generated by Tesseract as part of the NDNP Open OCR reprocessing pipeline.

Key methods include:

- `transfer_xmp()`: Transfer XMP data from the old PDF to the new PDF.
- `postprocess_pdf()`: Use Ghostscript to set resolution, display settings, etc.

### OCRProcessor

`OCRProcessor` runs the entire OCR reprocessing job on a single file. It takes the `input_filepath` and the `output_path` as input, where `input_filepath` is the location of the TIFF file for the issue on the system, and `output_path` is where you want the output directory structure written into (mirroring the input structure).

Key methods include:

- `generate_pdf()`: Generate a PDF from the input TIFF file.
- `postprocess_pdf()`: Postprocess the generated PDF.
- `linearize_pdf()`: Linearize the postprocessed PDF.
- `generate_alto()`: Generate an ALTO file from the input TIFF file using Tesseract.
- `process()`: Run the complete OCR reprocessing job -- generates new PDF and ALTO files, corrected to NDNP spec.

## Running the Script

You can use the `OCRProcessor` to run the complete OCR reprocessing job. Below is an example of how to do so:

```python
ocr_processor = OCRProcessor(input_file_path, output_path)
ocr_processor.process()
```

Ensure that you replace `input_file_path` and `output_path` with the path of the TIFF file and the desired output directory, respectively. The old PDF and ALTO files must also accompany the TIFF file in it's directory.

This will generate a PDF and an ALTO file from the input TIFF file, perform postprocessing on the PDF, and save both the PDF and ALTO file in the specified output directory.