# NDNP Open OCR: Batch Processing Command Line Interface (CLI)

This command line interface (CLI) enables you to trigger batch processing jobs on NDNP (National Digital Newspaper Program) data stored in Amazon S3, monitor the progress of these jobs, and download the results once the jobs are completed.

## Requirements

Before running the CLI, make sure that you have installed the required Python libraries listed in the accompanying `requirements.txt` file.

## Installation: Using Poetry to Build and Distribute with Pip Install

Poetry is a powerful packaging and dependency management tool that simplifies building and distributing Python packages. Here's how to use Poetry to manage the NDNP Open OCR package:

### Installing Poetry

If you don't have Poetry installed, you can install it by running:

```bash
pip install poetry
```

### Building the Package

Navigate to the root directory of the project (where `pyproject.toml` is located) and run:

```bash
poetry build
```

This command will create a `dist` directory containing the packaged files, ready for distribution.

### Installing the Package Locally

To install the package locally for testing, use:

```bash
poetry install
```

This command will install the package and its dependencies in a virtual environment managed by Poetry.

### Activating the Virtual Environment

To activate the virtual environment managed by Poetry, run:

```bash
poetry shell
```

This allows you to run the CLI tool in the environment automatically spun up by Poetry.

### Running the CLI Tool

Once installed, you can run the CLI tool using the command defined in the `pyproject.toml` file (`ndnp_openocr`).

For example, here is the command for running the "sync" command, to create a copy of a local batch and pull-down the new ALTO and PDF files from S3 that were created by the reprocessing job in AWS.

```bash
ndnp_openocr sync --prefix=batch_dlc_kite_ver01_____5ce7bcad-ec0e-4978-a760-cd6d457ab5c2 --output-dir=/Volumes/DLP1/batch_dlc_kite_ver03     --local-batch=/Volumes/DLP1/batch_dlc_kite_ver01
```




## Installation: From Scratch
These will need to be installed using virtualenv and Python3.9 in the target VM environment.
* dzdo yum install -y python39
<!-- * sudo yum install python34-devel.x86_64 -->
* sudo yum install git
<!-- * sudo easy_install virtualenv -->
pip3.9 install virtualenv



* mkdir /opt/ndnp/openocr
* cd /opt/ndnp
* git clone ssh://git@git.loc.gov:7999/NDNP/openocr.git
* cd scripts

* python3.9 -m virtualenv _env
* source _env/bin/activate
* export PYTHONPATH=/opt/ndnp/openocr/
<!-- * pip install -r requirements.txt -->
It isn't currently known why, but the following has to be run on the prod VM (SSL Cert issues for some reason).
* pip install --trusted-host pypi.org --trusted-host pypi.python.org --trusted-host=files.pythonhosted.org -r requirements.txt
* Make sure your AWS access_key and secret_key is set in your   ~/.aws/credentials file


## Usage

The CLI provides three commands:

1. `sync`: Creates a copy of a local NDNP batch and replaces old PDFs and ALTO files with new ones generated by the NDNP Open OCR pipeline and stored in an S3 bucket (same directory structure as local.).

2. `reprocess`: Kicks off a reprocessing job for a specific NDNP batch stored in S3 (currently our output bucket, will be loc-preservation bucket in the future).

3. `reprocess_and_download`: Combines the functionalities of the `reprocess` and `sync` commands. This command first triggers a reprocessing job for a specific NDNP batch. It then waits for the job to finish, monitors the progress using an SQS queue, and finally syncs the results once the job is completed.

The usage of each command is detailed below:

## 1. `sync`

```
python cli.py sync --prefix [PREFIX] --output-dir [OUTPUT_DIR] --overwrite [OVERWRITE_FLAG] --local-batch [LOCAL_BATCH_PATH]
```

Options:
- `--prefix`: The prefix to the batch in S3 (i.e. "/batches/dlc_euclid_ver02_reprocessed/")
- `--output-dir`: The local directory to output the new files to.
- `--overwrite`: Overwrite existing files. (optional)
- `--local-batch`: The path to local batch data (i.e. "/nfs_mounts/group5/ndnp/dlc_euclid_ver01")

## 2. `reprocess`

```
python cli.py reprocess --batch [BATCH_NAME]
```

Options:
- `--batch`: The batch argument to pass to the API.

## 3. `reprocess_and_download`

```
python cli.py reprocess_and_download --output-dir [OUTPUT_DIR] --overwrite [OVERWRITE_FLAG] --local-batch [LOCAL_BATCH_PATH] --batch [BATCH_NAME]
```

Options:
- `--output-dir`: The directory to output the new files to.
- `--overwrite`: Overwrite existing files. (optional)
- `--local-batch`: The path to local batch data.
- `--batch`: The batch argument to pass to the API.

Please note that all paths in the command options should be absolute paths or paths relative to the directory where you run the command from.

## Example

To trigger a reprocessing job for a specific batch named 'batch1' and download the results to the directory './output', you can use the `reprocess_and_download` command as follows:

```
python cli.py reprocess_and_download --output-dir ./output_notvalidated_batch --local-batch ./notvalidated_local --batch notvalidated
```

This command will trigger a reprocessing job for 'notvalidated', monitor the job progress, and once completed, the local batch will be copied into ./output_notvalidated_batch, then it will download the results to './output_notvalidated_batch' directory, overwriting the old ALTO and PDF files.